JUDY WOODRUFF: Good evening.
I'm Judy Woodruff.
On the "NewsHour": On this day
honoring Dr.
Martin Luther King Jr.,
president-elect Trump
meets with King's son, despite a
war of words
with a surviving civil rights
leader, Congressman
John Lewis.
Then: Mr. Trump makes waves
overseas, calling
NATO obsolete and signaling the
U.S. may ease
sanctions on Russia.
And one man's journey to
understand his hometown's
racist history leads to insights
into a still
deeply divided America.
PATRICK PHILLIPS, Author, "Blood
at the Root:
A Racial Cleansing in America":
We were raised
with this notion that, every
day, America
gets a little bit more just.
And I think, in the research, I
learned that
some -- what that leaves out is
that sometimes
the gains of one generation are
given back
in the next.
JUDY WOODRUFF: All that and more
on tonight's
"PBS NewsHour."
(BREAK)
JUDY WOODRUFF: Americans have
spent this day
honoring the life and legacy of
Dr. Martin
Luther King Jr.
It comes amid an open conflict
between another
iconic civil rights figure and
the nation's
new leader.
President-elect Trump marked the
King holiday
by inviting the civil rights
leader's son
to his New York tower.
Martin Luther King III called it
a very constructive
meeting, and quoted the
president-elect, saying
he wants to reach out to all
Americans.
MARTIN LUTHER KING III,
President & CEO, Realizing
the Dream: I believe that that's
his intent.
But I think also that we have to
consistently
engage with pressure, public
pressure.
It doesn't happen automatically.
My father and his team
understood that, did
that, and I think that Americans
are prepared
to do that.
JUDY WOODRUFF: King steered
clear of the Trump
feud with a civil rights hero,
Democratic
Representative John Lewis of
Georgia.
MARTIN LUTHER KING III: I think
that, in the
heat of emotion, a lot of things
get said
on both sides.
JUDY WOODRUFF: The war of words
began Friday,
with Lewis telling NBC that
Trump's election
wasn't legitimate because of
Russian meddling.
The full interview aired Sunday.
REP.
JOHN LEWIS (D), Georgia: I don't
see this
president-elect as a legitimate
president.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Lewis also said
he will boycott
Friday's inauguration.
All told, more than two dozen
members of Congress
now say they will do the same.
The president-elect fired back
at Lewis over
the weekend, tweeting that he
should spend
-- quote -- "more time on
helping his district
and calling him all talk, talk,
talk, no action
or results."
On CBS this weekend, vice
president-elect
Pence also pushed back.
MIKE PENCE (R), Vice
President-Elect: To make
a comment that he did not
consider Donald
Trump to be a legitimate
president, I think
is deeply disappointing.
I believe inaugurations are a
moment when
we should come together around
that individual
who has been elected to be
president of the
United States of America.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Today, at a King
Day breakfast
in Miami, Lewis ignored the
Trump criticism.
Instead, he issued a call to
action to his
listeners.
REP.
JOHN LEWIS: You must have
courage.
You must be bold.
And never, ever give up when you
know that
you're right.
JUDY WOODRUFF: For his part, Mr.
Trump canceled
an early plan to spend the
holiday in Washington
and visit the National Museum of
African American
History and Culture.
But the vice president-elect was
in Washington
at the Martin Luther King Jr.
Memorial.
President Obama, in his last
week in office,
took part in a service event at
a D.C. family
shelter.
In the day's other news: There
was no sign
of a letup in another
confrontation, this
one between Mr. Trump and the
intelligence
community.
It started when outgoing CIA
Director John
Brennan said Sunday that the
president-elect
must do more than -- quote --
"talk and tweet
about national security."
CHRIS WALLACE, Host, "®MD-BO /FOX
News Sunday":
Do you think that Mr. Trump
understands the
threat from Russia?
JOHN BRENNAN, CIA Director: I
don't think
he has a full appreciation of
Russian capabilities,
Russia's intentions, and actions
that they
are undertaking in many parts of
the world.
And that's what the obligation
and responsibility
of the intelligence community
is.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Later, Mr. Trump
fired back
on Twitter.
He criticized the CIA's record
on conflicts
in Syria, Crimea and Ukraine.
Then, referring directly to
Brennan, he asked
-- quote -- "Was this the leaker
of fake news?"
The president-elect also raised
hackles across
Europe with critical comments
about NATO and
the European Union.
We will turn to that story right
after the
news summary.
On the domestic front, the
incoming president
now says he means to replace
Obamacare with
insurance for everybody.
He's told The Washington Post
that his plan
is nearly complete, and that it
will offer
-- quote -- "much lower
deductibles," but
he offered no details.
In Turkey, there is word that
police have
captured the man suspected of
killing 39 in
an Istanbul nightclub during New
Year's celebrations.
The Islamic State group had
claimed responsibility
for the New Year's attack.
It triggered an intense
nationwide manhunt.
Turkish media reports say that
the Uzbek national
was taken into custody during a
raid in an
Istanbul suburb.
A Turkish cargo plane crashed
today in Kyrgyzstan,
destroying out half a village
and killing
at least 37 people.
The Boeing 747 was trying to
land in dense
fog near the capital city,
Bishkek.
There was no immediate word what
caused the
crash.
There's a startling new report
about wealth
inequality around the globe.
The anti-poverty organization
Oxfam reports
that the eight richest men on
Earth own as
much as the poorest half of the
world's population.
That's about 3.6 billion people.
The report says the gap has
grown from what
it was just a year ago by a
significant amount.
MAX LAWSON, Oxfam: We have seen
countries
in the last 10 years that have
bucked the
trend and that are going in the
other direction,
and are reducing the gap between
rich and
poor.
One thing they do is, they get
the rich to
pay their tax.
We have got a situation where
billionaires
are paying less tax often than
their cleaner
or their secretary.
That's crazy.
We're seeing wealth channeled
upwards.
JUDY WOODRUFF: The report was
released ahead
of the World Economic Forum in
Davos, Switzerland.
Ten more long-term detainees
have left the
U.S. prison at Guantanamo Bay,
Cuba.
The Persian Gulf state of Oman
announced today
that it accepted the 10.
That leaves 45 prisoners
remaining at Guantanamo.
President Obama has pushed to
close the prison.
President-elect Trump has vowed
to keep it
open.
Conservative commentator Monica
Crowley has
backed out of a job with the new
Trump administration,
amid a plagiarism, an alleged
plagiarism scandal.
It's widely reported that she's
decided against
serving at the National Security
Council.
Crowley is accused of
plagiarizing parts of
her doctoral dissertation and
her 2012 book.
The World Series champion
Chicago Cubs were
feted today by the White Sox fan
who calls
the White House home.
The Cubs were the last
championship team that
Mr. Obama will greet while he's
in office.
They presented the 44th
president with two
special jerseys.
The Cubs won the series last
November for
the first time since 1908.
And former astronaut Gene Cernan
died today
in Houston.
He was the last of a dozen men
to walk on
the moon.
A handful of others still
survive.
Cernan commanded the Apollo 17
mission to
the lunar surface in December
1972.
In later years, he urged
Congress to approve
a return to the moon.
Eugene Cernan was 82 years old.
Still to come on the "NewsHour":
our Politics
Monday duo previews inauguration
week; lessons
on race from a city that once
forced out its
black residents; and much more.
Beyond his social media
statements over the
weekend, the president-elect had
much more
to say in an interview with two
European publications.
He opined on the usefulness of
NATO and the
European Union, on the stability
of Germany
under Chancellor Angela Merkel,
and on Brexit.
John Yang begins our coverage.
JOHN YANG: As hundreds of U.S.
Marines touched
down today in Norway, a move
designed to reassure
nations nervous about Russia,
European officials
were digesting president-elect
Trump's latest
comments about NATO.
He told The Times of London and
the German
newspaper Bild that: "It's
obsolete because
it wasn't taking care of terror.
And the other thing is, the
countries aren't
paying their fair share, which I
think is
very unfair to the United
States."
In fact, the only time the
alliance's mutual
defense provision was invoked
was to help
the United States after the 9/11
terror attacks.
Hundreds of NATO troops died
alongside Americans
in Afghanistan.
Mr. Trump had made similar
statements during
the campaign, but this latest
barb came just
days after his nominee for
defense secretary
offered a starkly different
opinion.
GEN.
JAMES MATTIS (RET.), Secretary
of Defense
Nominee: NATO, from my
perspective, having
served once as the NATO supreme
allied commander,
is the most successful military
alliance probably
in modern world history, maybe
ever.
JOHN YANG: The Kremlin agreed
with the Trump
assessment and said NATO's main
goal is confrontation.
But it said little about the
president-elect's
suggestion that he might drop
U.S. sanctions
on Russia in exchange for
nuclear arms reductions.
Mr. Trump also said he's
indifferent about
the European Union's future in
the wake of
Britain's vote to leave it:
"Personally, I
don't think it matters much for
the United
States.
Look, the E.U. was formed,
partially, to beat
the United States on trade, so I
don't really
care whether it's separate or
together."
The president-elect had special
criticism
for German Chancellor Angela
Merkel.
He said she had made a
catastrophic mistake
in taking in thousands of
migrants and refugees.
And he said he will start off
trusting Merkel
and Russian President Vladimir
Putin equally,
but said that may not last.
The chancellor answered today in
Berlin:
ANGELA MERKEL, German Chancellor
(through
translator): I think, for us
Europeans, we
have our fate in our own hands.
The president-elect made his
points again.
Once he is in office, which he
is not at the
moment, we will, of course, work
together
with the American government.
Then we will see what sort of
cooperation
we can achieve.
JOHN YANG: Outgoing Secretary of
State John
Kerry went further in a CNN
interview.
JOHN KERRY, U.S. Secretary of
State: Well,
I thought, frankly, it was
inappropriate for
a president-elect of the United
States to
be stepping into the politics of
other countries
in a quite direct manner.
JOHN YANG: The secretary said,
ultimately,
it's for Mr. Trump to explain
himself, because,
as of Friday, he's responsible
for that relationship.
We get reaction to Mr. Trump's
comments from
two people with extensive
experience managing
U.S.-European relations.
Nicholas Burns was a career
diplomat.
He was U.S. ambassador to NATO
during the
Obama administration.
He's now at Harvard University.
And he joins us tonight from
London.
Here in studio, Heather Conley,
she was deputy
assistant secretary of state for
European
and Eurasian affairs during the
George W.
Bush administration.
She's now director and senior
fellow of the
Europe Program at the Center for
Strategic
and International Studies, a
think tank in
Washington, D.C.
Thank you both for joining us.
Mr. Burns, let me start with
you, former ambassador
to NATO.
Donald Trump says that NATO is
obsolete because
it doesn't take on terror,
unfair to the United
States.
What's your take?
NICHOLAS BURNS, Former U.S.
Undersecretary
of State for Political Affairs:
He's completely
wrong about that.
I was ambassador to NATO for
President George
W. Bush actually on 9/11.
And on 9/11, when we were
attacked from al-Qaida
in Afghanistan, the NATO allies
came to us
in Brussels.
They said they wanted to invoke
Article V
of the NATO treaty, an attack on
one of us
is an attack on all of us.
They came to our defense big
time.
They all went into Afghanistan.
They bled, died and were wounded
for us in
Afghanistan.
They're all still fighting in
We fought the terrorism of
al-Qaida and the
terrorism of the Taliban and
other terrorist
groups in Afghanistan.
So, Trump is -- Donald Trump is
exactly wrong.
And I can tell you, having been
in London
today, people here are just
flabbergasted
by this interview in The Times
in London.
To basically -- to denigrate
NATO as obsolete,
to root openly for the weakening
of the European
Union, to castigate Angela
Merkel, our strongest
friend in Europe, we have not
seen an American
president be so openly critical
of our allies
in 70 years.
And yet he doesn't criticize our
adversary
Vladimir Putin.
It is mystifying.
People here are uncertain about
American leadership.
It's a very poor and unwise way
to start his
term in office.
JOHN YANG: Heather Conley, the
larger point,
your take on the remarks, but
also specifically
on NATO.
He says it's unfair because the
other countries
aren't paying their fair share,
that the financial
burden falls on the United
States.
HEATHER CONLEY, Director, Europe
Program,
Center for Strategic and
International Studies:
Well, it's certainly been a
bipartisan comment
to get European countries to
increase their
defense spending.
And that's something that they
-- NATO countries
pledged two-and-a-half years ago
to substantially
increase their defense spending,
and they're
doing that.
The challenge is, the United
States is safer
because NATO exists.
When we join with our allies to
-- whether
it's defeating the Taliban in
Afghanistan,
supporting those in Iraq to beat
back ISIS,
to protect NATO when Russia
invades a neighboring
country, this -- it makes
America stronger.
It's a part of U.S. national
security.
So, when you're criticizing NATO
and saying
it's obsolete, you're actually
degrading U.S.
national security.
And that is what has us all so
confused about
Mr. Trump's comments.
It's OK to say Europe is not
spending enough
and we need to increase that
spending.
But we get an enormous benefit
out of the
NATO alliance.
JOHN YANG: Let's drill down on
the some of
the other things that he said in
the interview.
Ambassador Burns, what about
this idea of
lifting sanctions on Russia
which were put
in place for their annexation of
Crimea in
exchange for an agreement on
arms reduction?
NICHOLAS BURNS: It's hard to see
the logic
in this agreement.
Everyone, of course, wants to
see nuclear
stability between the United
States and Russia.
It's the highest priority.
But we can achieve nuclear arms
stability
and reduction based on the
interest of both
sides.
For Donald Trump to say, I will
do this, I
will reduce nuclear weapons with
Russia and
give them sanctions relief,
Russia crossed
the brightest red line in
international law
by invading and annexing Crimea
and then dividing
Eastern Ukraine in the Donbass,
and, of course,
has been threatening our allies
the Baltic
states.
Those sanction regimes are in
place by Europeans,
Canadians and Americans as
leverage against
Russia.
And the sanctions cannot be
lifted until Russia
removes its forces from Eastern
Ukraine.
If it doesn't do that, and if we
give away
on sanctions, Russia gets away
with grand
larceny.
The European leadership will be
furious with
the United States, Angela Merkel
especially.
She negotiated these sanctions
with President
Putin directly.
And so I think it's very unwise.
It gives away American
influence.
It would be a weak policy by the
United States,
not a strong policy.
JOHN YANG: Heather Conley, is
this sort of
essentially offering to accept
this annexation
of Crimea in exchange for
something else?
Is this sort of like a business
deal?
HEATHER CONLEY: Well, exactly.
We're talking about two separate
things.
The sanctions relate to the
annexation of
Crimea and the invasion of
Eastern Ukraine.
A nuclear arms agreement --
let's step back
a minute.
Russia has been in violation of
the IMF Treaty
many years.
Now, steps have not been taken
to address
those violations.
We have seen where --
announcements of moving
of Russian tactical weapons near
NATO borders,
near now U.S. troops.
We do need to address this.
But we're mixing apples and
oranges here.
Again, nuclear stability, I
agree, is very
important, but, right now -- and
I thought
president-elect Trump had
mentioned that he
wants to strengthen America's
nuclear arsenal.
Perhaps I misunderstood.
So, are we reducing?
Are we increasing?
But we have to watch very
carefully Russia's
military modernization.
They are actually increasing
their strategic
nuclear deterrent.
They may be at a point where
they're accelerating
that program.
We have to be extremely mindful.
This is protecting U.S. national
security.
And Russia, as General Mattis
noted, really
is a near-term threat, could be
an existential
threat.
So let's keep our eye on the
prize here, and
not start conflating two very
different things.
JOHN YANG: Nicholas Burns,
talked about this
equating Vladimir Putin and
Angela Merkel.
What's your take on that?
HEATHER CONLEY: I -- to be
honest with you,
that was the most -- I'm sorry,
Nic.
(CROSSTALK)
JOHN YANG: Sorry.
Go ahead, Mr. Ambassador.
NICHOLAS BURNS: Sorry, just the
time delay.
I just wanted to say, Angela
Merkel is our
strongest ally.
Vladimir Putin is our greatest
adversary.
To equate them is an insult to
Angela Merkel.
And Europe is our largest trade
partner, largest
investor into our economy and
largest ally.
Europe really matters.
Donald Trump says we're
indifferent to the
future of the E.U.?
The E.U. was formed to put aside
war between
France and Germany and unite
Europe in peace.
It's done that.
We should support it.
JOHN YANG: We have got less than
a minute
left.
Mr. Ambassador, let's start with
you.
What -- overall, what does this
say about
what's ahead for U.S.-European
relations?
NICHOLAS BURNS: A very rocky
start for the
administration of Donald Trump.
I have to believe that Rex
Tillerson, the
new secretary of state incoming,
Jim Mattis,
the new secretary of defense,
they understand
the value of NATO.
They understand that we're the
leader of the
West.
And I hope very much that Donald
Trump will
agree with them and shift these
positions.
JOHN YANG: But, Heather Conley,
who's speaking
for the administration?
HEATHER CONLEY: That's the
question.
And we're going to need to get
some clarification
on that.
Just to underscore it, European
solidarity,
unity -- it is an incredibly
important trade
and investment partner to the
U.S.
We cannot want Europe to be
divided, to be
-- to fall apart.
They're too important to U.S.
national security.
Seventy years ago, another great
secretary
of state and defense, George C.
Marshall,
made his Marshall Plan.
This was a massive investment in
Europe.
The United States has invested
in Europe.
We are the beneficiaries of it.
We cannot let this go away.
It's too important.
JOHN YANG: Heather Conley,
Nicholas Burns,
thank you both very much.
HEATHER CONLEY: Thank you.
JUDY WOODRUFF: That brings us to
Politics
Monday this inauguration week
with Tamara
Keith of NPR and Susan Page of
USA Today.
Great to see both of you on this
Monday.
Tam, let me start with you as we
-- before
we get into any of the
specifics, inauguration
week for this incoming
president, how does
it look at this point?
TAMARA KEITH, National Public
Radio: It looks
like it's going to happen.
(LAUGHTER)
TAMARA KEITH: His team says that
he is still
working on the speech, still
refining it.
We have no idea what that speech
will say,
though they promise he will talk
about bringing
Americans together.
But he's also giving a speech
the night before
at sort of a pregame rally and
event for supporters.
And then, of course, there will
be protests
the following day.
JUDY WOODRUFF: What should we
look for, Susan?
SUSAN PAGE, Washington Bureau
Chief, USA Today:
I think this has been a
remarkable period
since the president-elect won
the election
two months ago, because,
usually, this has
been a time when Americans kind
of come together,
there's this era of kind of good
feeling,
at least for a little while.
We haven't seen that with this.
We have seen really a
continuation of the
rhetoric we heard during the
campaign, and
some of the divisions have
persisted.
And Donald Trump is going to be
inaugurated
with the lowest approval ratings
of any president
since we started to take polls.
So, this is going to be -- we
overuse the
word unprecedented when it comes
to Donald
Trump, but there are many ways
in which this
period of time has been
unprecedented.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And part of that,
as we have
been discussing and reporting
earlier in the
program, Tam, is this back and
forth over
the weekend between Congressman
John Lewis,
who said he didn't view Donald
Trump as a
legitimately elected president
because of
the Russian interference in the
election,
but then Mr. Trump's coming back
at him and
saying, you should be doing more
in your own
district.
What are we to make of all that?
TAMARA KEITH: And also saying
that he's all
talk, talk, talk, and no action,
which many
people took issue with, given
that John Lewis
is a civil rights hero, icon.
So, this is the latest instance
of which you
could basically go every single
week for the
last year-and-a-half of Donald
Trump taking
a fight, you know, taking an
opportunity to
strike back at someone on
Twitter, getting
into a Twitter feud.
Last week, it was Meryl Streep.
This week, it's John Lewis.
Many times, he's gotten into
feuds with people
who you would consider to be
people that you
wouldn't want to touch, that,
politically,
it's just not worth going there.
But Donald Trump, you know, he
will not just
sit back and let someone insult
him.
And the way John Lewis did
insult him really
hit him in a soft spot.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Susan, is there
evidence that
this kind of response on the
part of the president-elect
helps him in some way?
SUSAN PAGE: Well, it may help
him with his
core supporters who have elected
him maybe
in part because he is so
combative, because
he never fails to counterpunch
if he thinks
somebody has taken a punch at
him.
And there are even some
defenders of John
Lewis who think Donald Trump is
still the
legitimate president -- that's a
very serious
charge to make against someone
who is about
to take the oath of office --
but that he
is a figure of such respect, of
such iconic
status in the United States from
the civil
rights struggle, that he was a
particularly
inappropriate person to have a
counterpunch.
And now we have more than two
dozen members
of Congress saying they will
boycott the inauguration
ceremonies.
Now, sometimes, member of
Congress I think
haven't shown up, because who
would notice
if every member of the House was
there?
But this has now become a
rallying cry and
another sign of the divisions
that Donald
Trump will face when he moves
into the White
House.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Tamara, how much
should Donald
Trump, who is a Republican --
will be a Republican
president, be concerned about
his relationship
with the African-American
community?
I mean, after all, this is not a
group of
voters who supported him.
TAMARA KEITH: Right.
And this continues.
By about a little more than
two-thirds in
a new Pew poll of
African-Americans say that
they do not approve of the job
that Donald
Trump has been doing in his
transition of
explaining his policies or where
he's going.
That's far worse than he ranks
with white
voters, for instance.
So, this is a problem.
It's a problem that Donald Trump
has, at least
on some level, tried to address.
He brought Steve Harvey to Trump
Tower.
He talks about wanting to help.
But almost always, he focuses
on, well, I
want to help urban centers.
I want to help crime-ridden
urban areas, which
many in the African-American
community have
been hearing him say throughout
the campaign,
and hearing it as an insult and
sort of misunderstanding
the fact that large numbers of
black people
live in the suburbs, for
instance, and are
quite affluent.
JUDY WOODRUFF: But, today, he
did meet with
the son of Dr. Martin Luther
King Jr., Susan.
SUSAN PAGE: He did.
And, of course, this is -- this
would have
been, I think, the 88th of
Martin Luther King
Jr., and so a good day to meet
with his son
and to think about some of the
issues that
Martin Luther King raised.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, I want to
turn to something
else that Donald Trump said in
one of the
interviews he did over the
weekend with The
Washington Post -- and, Susan, I
will start
with you on this -- in which he
said, in so
many words, that he supports --
they were
talking about health insurance
and what's
going to happen to Obamacare.
And he said -- he promised
insurance for everyone.
How are we to interpret this?
SUSAN PAGE: So, a revelation, I
think, to
all of us, including
congressional Republicans
who work on this issue.
Health care, what a tough issue.
We saw that with the passage of
the Affordable
Care Act.
But in this interview with The
Washington
Post, Donald Trump said he would
have insurance
for everybody, it wouldn't be a
single-payer
system, it would be a great
system and less
expensive.
So, if that's true, that would
be terrific.
But people who work in health
care say that
is a really tough thing to do.
And we think that it's possible
that he is
-- we're moving toward is health
care access
for all, not coverage for all.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Access.
SUSAN PAGE: Access to all is
something that
Paul Ryan, the House speaker,
has talked about.
And that would still be an
achievement, but
an easier thing to do than
coverage for all.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And, Tam, I
wanted to ask you.
What Susan brought up is that
how does this
square with what Republicans
have been saying
they want to do about health
care?
TAMARA KEITH: Right.
What she said, universal access.
There's a big difference between
coverage
for all and universal access.
And one thing that Republicans
have talked
about a lot recently is how
President Obama
said, if you like your plan, you
can keep
your plan, if you like your
doctor, you can
keep your doctor.
And they point out that that
simply proved
not to be true.
And Donald Trump and his team
are tiptoeing
very close to making promises
that in the
not-so-distant future could be
held against
them if it doesn't become a
reality.
I think lots of people would
love to have
health insurance for everyone.
Many people would like to have
health insurance.
But, you know, Donald Trump also
said that
he had a great plan for knocking
out ISIS,
and then he never really said
what that plan
was.
We will have to see.
He says he has to wait for Tom
Price, his
health and human services agency
director,
to be nom -- or to be confirmed,
and then
he says right away that plan
will be clear.
So, I think we have to wait to
see the plan.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And just finally,
in a few
seconds, Susan, his incoming
health and human
services Cabinet
secretary-designate is in
a little bit of hot water right
now.
SUSAN PAGE: That's right, a
story that CNN
first reported that he bought
some -- when
he was a member of Congress last
year, he
bought some stock in a bio-med
company, then
a week later introduced some
legislation that
would help that company, and
then got a campaign
contribution from that company.
Chuck Schumer , the Senate
Democratic leader,
has called for an investigation
of that.
And it comes in the wake of a
Wall Street
Journal story last month that
reported about
stock trades that Tom Price had
done.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, watch this
space.
We will see where that goes.
Susan Page, Tamara Keith, thank
you both.
SUSAN PAGE: Thank you.
TAMARA KEITH: You're welcome.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Stay with us.
Coming up on the "NewsHour": the
difficult
political task of making Brexit
a reality;
plus, when for-profit colleges
leave students
with no degree and a mountain of
debt.
But first: Painful divisions
that many Americans
thought the country had moved
past were brought
to the surface after the recent
presidential
election.
In fact, the Southern Poverty
Law Center has
been keeping a running tab on a
spike in hate
incidents across the country.
Special correspondent Duarte
Geraldino reports
tonight from an area outside
Atlanta where
lingering racial scars are still
being examined
for lessons on how to move
forward.
And a warning: The story
contains some graphic
and offensive language.
DUARTE GERALDINO: In 1987, race
and class
divisions erupted as
African-American leaders
and their supporters tried to
march through
Forsyth County, Georgia, an area
just 40 miles
north of Atlanta.
PROTESTERS: Nigger, go home!
Nigger, go home!
OPRAH WINFREY, Host, "The Oprah
Winfrey Show":
Where do the people come from
who were shouting
"Nigger, go home"?
DUARTE GERALDINO: A moment of
extreme division
captured in one of Oprah
Winfrey's first shows.
She came to Forsyth after it was
thrust into
the global spotlight because an
unspoken ban
on black people was, all at
once, being exposed,
challenged and proudly defended.
FRANK SHIRLEY, Committee to Keep
Forsyth and
Dawson Counties White: My name
is Frank Shirley.
I am head of the Committee to
Keep Forsyth
Dawson County White.
There were thousands of white
people that
came out to join our white
people's protest.
PATRICK PHILLIPS, Author, "Blood
at the Root:
A Racial Cleansing in America":
First time
anyone, including myself, had
seen black faces
in Forsyth County.
DUARTE GERALDINO: Yet there were
also whites
in the area, like Patrick
Phillips, who joined
African-Americans to oppose the
ban.
He was just 17 at the time.
PATRICK PHILLIPS: All around me,
all of these
people started chanting "White
power."
And at that point, I realize
that I had stumbled
my way into the middle of the
Klan's victory
celebration for having stopped
the march.
DUARTE GERALDINO: At that point,
what goes
through your mind?
PATRICK PHILLIPS: I was
horrified and kind
of shocked.
DUARTE GERALDINO: Phillips says
the march
came at a time when the
community was feeling
pressure from what it considered
outsiders,
a time when speaking up against
the racial
ban could make you a target.
PATRICK PHILLIPS: I still feel a
little bit
nervous talking about all of
this openly now.
DUARTE GERALDINO: But, lately,
he's been doing
a lot of talking about his
childhood in North
Georgia and how his experience
can help all
Americans make sense of today.
PATRICK PHILLIPS: What's
happened in the last
couple of months, the ugliness
of the campaign,
the racial rhetoric and the
divisiveness,
and I think there are people who
want to interpret
that as a kind of wrong turning
in America.
I think the other way to
interpret it is really
more of a revelation of some
currents that
have been there all along.
DUARTE GERALDINO: Phillips is
the author of
"Blood at the Root: A Racial
Cleansing in
America."
The book is his way of making
sense of the
place where he grew up.
PATRICK PHILLIPS: The story that
I was told,
the myth, was very simple: White
people rose
up.
They drove out their black
neighbors.
They were kept out for 100
years, what I now
know as the racial cleansing in
1912.
DUARTE GERALDINO: We followed
his trail of
discovery.
It begins here at a cemetery
beside Pleasant
Grove Baptist Church just
outside of Cumming,
Georgia.
What is this?
PATRICK PHILLIPS: So, this is
the grave of
Mae Crow.
She comes into the story of
Forsyth County's
racial cleansing because, on
September 8,
1912, she disappeared in the
woods about a
mile from her house, and all
hell broke loose
in Forsyth County on the day of
Mae Crow's
funeral.
DUARTE GERALDINO: According to
various accounts,
18-year-old Mae Crow is walking
alone in the
woods when she's struck
repeatedly with a
rock, reportedly sexually
assaulted and left
for dead.
DEBBIE VERMAAT, Grand Nice of
Mae Crow: She
was hit so hard that her eye was
dislodged
from her skull and left hanging.
DUARTE GERALDINO: Debbie Vermaat
is Mae Crow's
grand niece.
She keeps a portrait of her in
her living
room.
DEBBIE VERMAAT: My grandmother
always said
that she was known to be the
prettiest girl
in Forsyth County.
DUARTE GERALDINO: Word of the
attack spread
quickly.
Suspicion soon fell on a group
of young African-Americans.
Local media condemned them,
describing them
as the trio as -- quote -- "the
fiendish,
low-browed, gorilla-type
Negroes."
Enraged by the news, a mob
immediately lynched
one man.
You believe that some of your
distant relatives
took part in this lynching?
DEBBIE VERMAAT: Yes, some of
them, I am fairly
sure they did.
These were the most aggrieved
and grieving
who wanted justice for what had
happened to
their loved one.
DUARTE GERALDINO: Two others,
both teenagers,
were arrested, tried, and
convicted.
A prominent doctor volunteered
land near his
home for the court-ordered
execution.
An estimated 5,000 people showed
up to watch
the hangings.
DEBBIE VERMAAT: Well, my
grandmother would've
been 18 months old sitting in
her mother's
lap.
DUARTE GERALDINO: Watching
someone being lynched.
DEBBIE VERMAAT: Watching, right.
DUARTE GERALDINO: So, do you
believe that
those three people, the two
teenagers, the
one young man in his 20s, do you
believe they
were innocent?
DEBBIE VERMAAT: I do believe
they were innocent.
I do believe.
And I believe it's a huge cold
case that's
still sitting there to try to
figure out exactly
who did it.
DUARTE GERALDINO: Stories like
this were common
in the Jim Crow South, but what
was unique
in this case is what happened
next.
Newspapers of the day describe a
series of
late-night attacks on black
families, a campaign
of terror by whites.
PATRICK PHILLIPS: The Night
Riders won.
It worked.
They succeeded in their goal of
driving out
the entire black community.
DUARTE GERALDINO: More than
1,000 African-Americans
banished.
PATRICK PHILLIPS: They largely
erased all
the signs that that community
had ever been
there.
At one point, this land belonged
to the black
community of Forsyth County.
DUARTE GERALDINO: But not
everything was erased.
Phillips has spent 10 years
looking for physical
evidence of Forsyth's black
community, remains
of burned-out churches and lands
from which
African-Americans were driven
off.
Why is it so difficult to find
all this stuff?
PATRICK PHILLIPS: Well, I have a
land lot
number, and that's it.
DUARTE GERALDINO: Today, much of
this land
is high-priced real estate, but
when Phillips
first came, it was a different
place.
PATRICK PHILLIPS: In 1977, when
my family
moved to Forsyth, the place was
changing quite
a bit.
The completion of Highway 400 in
the mid-1970s
suddenly made Forsyth viable as
a bedroom
community for people, for
professional people
working in Atlanta.
DUARTE GERALDINO: Those
newcomers weren't
always welcome, though.
At the time, fewer than 40,000
people lived
here, and some were willing to
use extreme
measures to protect their way of
life.
Today, more than 200,000 people
live in Forsyth.
And thanks to a surge in new
businesses and
high-paying jobs, it's one of
the wealthiest
counties in the nation.
PATRICK PHILLIPS: To
successfully erase this
kind of land theft, to ignore
its impact over
generations is really damaging.
Come on up, Duarte.
DUARTE GERALDINO: Phillips'
search did turn
up one major marker.
Remember the home of the wealthy
landowner
who volunteered his backyard for
the public
hangings in 1912?
It's been meticulously restored,
and now houses
the local Chamber of Commerce.
James McCoy is the chamber's
CEO.
JAMES MCCOY, CEO, Forsyth
Chamber of Commerce:
You know, the events in --
particularly in
1987, it was a soul-searching
moment for this
community.
Much of that was driven by the
business community.
DUARTE GERALDINO: Since 1987,
the Chamber's
membership has evolved, moving
from mostly
mom-and-pop businesses to larger
corporations
explicitly bound by the Civil
Rights Act of
1964.
JAMES MCCOY: We went from
probably a little
over 90 percent being
micro-enterprises, one
or two employees, to companies
that are more
in the mid-range of business of
anywhere between
25 and 200 employees.
DUARTE GERALDINO: You can
measure just how
far Forsyth has come by the
candidacy of Democrat
Daniel Blackman.
He ran to represent the county
in the Georgia
State Senate.
DANIEL BLACKMAN, Former Georgia
State Senatorial
Candidate: I didn't win, but we
got 21 percent
of the vote.
And I'm almost positive to say
that some white
folks voted for me.
So the fact that I'm in this
county, and we
were able to run, and I'm a
black candidate,
I think that really speaks
volumes, and it
shows that we are going in the
right direction.
DUARTE GERALDINO: Still, less
than 5 percent
of all Forsyth residents are
black.
Yet, unlike many
African-Americans before
him, Blackman is vowing to stay.
He owns a strategic
communications business
and is raising his family here.
DANIEL BLACKMAN: I'm not going
anywhere for
a long time.
DUARTE GERALDINO: But, for
Phillips and Vermaat,
the weight of their Forsyth
roots are too
heavy.
Both moved up North decades ago.
PATRICK PHILLIPS: We were raised
with this
notion that, every day, America
gets a little
bit more just, every day, the
wheels of progress
kind of move forward.
And I think, in the research, I
learned that
some -- what that leaves out is
that sometimes
the gains of one generation are
given back
in the next.
DEBBIE VERMAAT: Because, down
there, nobody
wanted to talk about it.
DUARTE GERALDINO: Vermaat now
lives in the
Philadelphia area and gives
talks to mostly
white groups on the lessons of
her family's
past and what it means for
today.
I asked her if she feels the
country has moved
past the kinds of racial
conflict that Forsyth
experienced.
DEBBIE VERMAAT: No.
There are still so many places
that are white
enclaves.
We are still a very segregated
country.
DUARTE GERALDINO: Confirming the
reasons Vermaat
was so fearful, the Southern
Poverty Law Center
has documented more than 1,000
incidents of
racial intimidation since the
presidential
election.
For the "PBS NewsHour," I'm
Duarte Geraldino
in Forsyth County, Georgia.
JUDY WOODRUFF: In London
tomorrow, British
Prime Minister Theresa May will
unveil her
plan to follow through with
Brexit, the U.K.'s
decision to leave the European
Union.
But the mechanics of executing
the move to
get Britain out of the E.U. are
causing tensions
inside the British government
and with opponents
who would like to stop it from
happening at
all.
From London, special
correspondent Jennifer
Glasse reports.
JENNIFER GLASSE: The only thing
that's really
certain about Brexit is the
uncertainty it's
caused.
The British government wants to
start the
process by invoking Article 50
by the end
of March.
That's the clause in the Lisbon
Treaty that
allows states to withdraw from
the E.U.
It would start the clock on the
two-year deadline
for the U.K. to exit the
European Union.
But there are obstacles in the
government's
way, like John Shaw and Wynne
Edwards.
They lead a group of British
expatriates living
in France who want to delay or
defeat Brexit
altogether.
WYNNE EDWARDS, Opposes Brexit:
It affects
us profusely, because we have
made our lives
there.
We have invested there.
And if we are made to leave or
if we don't
enjoy the rights there that we
enjoy at the
moment, it would severely affect
us.
JENNIFER GLASSE: The U.N.
estimates 1.2 million
U.K.-born people live in other
E.U. countries,
which give them the same rights
as any European.
JOHN SHAW, Opposes Brexit: I
have got a right
to work.
I have a right to living there
forever.
I have got a right of owning
property.
I got a right of transferring my
property
to my family when I die.
I have got have a right of use
of health care.
All of these are rights which
are conferred
on me as a result of living in
the E.U.
JENNIFER GLASSE: But Brexit
would likely end
those rights, so Fair Deal for
Expats and
others have taken their case to
the British
court system to argue that only
Parliament
can call for a break with the
E.U.
The government says the Brexit
referendum
gives it the right to decide how
Britain exits.
Those from other European
countries living
in the U.K. are also watching
anxiously for
the results.
There are so many French here
that London
is called Paris on the Thames,
and is considered
the sixth largest city in
France.
Patricia Connell, founder of
France in London,
says that's why Parliament
should be the one
to decide if and how Brexit
happens.
PATRICIA CONNELL, Founder,
France in London:
There should be a discussion.
And there should be debates in
the House of
Commons about it and how it
should be done.
And I think that that is that
point that is
being argued at the moment about
the triggering
of Article 50.
Without Parliament debating and
agreeing on
it and without a vote taking
place, then it
shouldn't be triggered.
JENNIFER GLASSE: In November,
the high court
ruled in the opponents' favor,
saying that
Parliament indeed should be
involved.
Now the British government is
appealing to
the Supreme Court.
Parliament member Anne-Marie
Trevelyan campaigned
in favor of Brexit and says,
just because
the popular vote was close, with
52 percent
in favor, doesn't mean it should
be discarded.
ANNE-MARIE TREVELYAN, Member of
Parliament:
I wasn't terribly thrilled when
Tony Blair
got elected as prime minister,
but I didn't
suddenly call for a second
referendum and
say that the people were wrong.
If a majority -- you know, it's
a simple equation.
If it's a majority decision,
then that's the
decision we go with.
That's how democracies work.
JENNIFER GLASSE: Trevelyan says,
no matter
how the Supreme Court rules,
she's confident
that the outcome will be the
same, with Britain
eventually leaving the E.U.
ANNE-MARIE TREVELYAN: Coming out
of the E.U.
will ensure that we're not stuck
in a very,
very sluggish customs union, but
we're able
to be the greatest free trade
nation on Earth
again, which is what so many
people want.
And you talk to businesses, they
want to be
freed of the regulations and of
the drag pressures
that being stuck within the E.U.
trading bloc
creates.
JENNIFER GLASSE: But it's not at
all clear
exactly how businesses would be
affected.
East London's Canary Wharf is
home to some
of the world's largest banks.
Brexit would likely mean tighter
trading rules
with Europe, and that has some
thinking about
moving out of the U.K.
Billions of dollars a day are
traded here,
making London the biggest
financial center
in the world.
But Brexit could change that.
And cities like Frankfurt, Paris
and Dublin
are all vying for possible
business as banks
consider leaving.
Market strategist Mike Ingram
says financial
services in Britain employ about
2.2 million
people, accounting for 12
percent of the country's
GDP.
That won't be easy to move.
MIKE INGRAM, Market Strategist:
But, at the
end of the day, you cannot
deconstruct what
is on paper one of the most
important financial
centers in the world overnight.
You know, let's say we go to
Dublin, low tax
rate, they speak English, right
time zone,
et cetera.
Physically, how do you how do
you decamp that
many people?
JENNIFER GLASSE: Wynne Edwards
says an even
more critical concern is the
instability to
Europe in general.
World Wars I and II, in fact,
wars going back
to centuries, have set nation
against nation
on the continent.
He worries breaking apart the
union will foster
more strife.
WYNNE EDWARDS: I think you need
to cast your
mind back to what's happened in
history.
And just, without going into it,
I cannot
believe that anyone wouldn't
want a united
Europe.
ANNE-MARIE TREVELYAN: I would
disagree, that
I think a dangerous Europe is
one where nations
feel suffocated by the E.U.
machine, which
is trying to overcome and stop
those individual
nations' views of the world.
JENNIFER GLASSE: The Supreme
Court is expected
to rule this month.
Whatever it decides, Britain
will remain divided
about whether Brexit will
benefit or hurt
the country.
For each side, the clock is
ticking, towards
implementing Brexit, limiting
the upheaval
it could cause, or stopping it
altogether.
For the "PBS NewsHour," I'm
Jennifer Glasse
in London.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Student loan debt
is an issue
facing many Americans, and can
take years
to pay off.
In particular, the problems some
students
face at for-profit schools are
getting closer
scrutiny.
Marketplace's Lizzie O'Leary has
the story.
It's part of our series How the
Deck Is Stacked.
It's in partnership with
"Frontline" and Marketplace,
and funded by the Corporation
for Public Broadcasting.
LIZZIE O'LEARY: Before she
became a mother,
New Yorker Danielle Adorno (ph)
dreamed of
working as a pastry chef.
When she came across ads for the
Art Institute
of New York, it seemed like a
great fit.
And she says school
administrators promised
her a lot.
DANIELLE LOPEZ, Student Loan
Borrower: They
were very adamant on like their
job placement
rates, boasting over like 90
percent job placement,
boasting about their chef
instructors working
at Nobu and all these high-end
restaurants.
You would think, oh, OK, I'm
going to get
the quality education that I'm
looking for,
because that's what it's about,
quality.
You know, I figure, if I'm going
to pay that
much -- that amount of money for
such a short
program, I'm going to be getting
something
out of it.
And that wasn't what happened.
LIZZIE O'LEARY: She claims the
school never
helped her get work in her
field.
And she says employers don't
value the degree
in the way she thought they
would.
She's no longer paying her loan
company her
$25,000 debt.
DANIELLE LOPEZ: They don't
deserve a single
penny out of me, because I
didn't get the
education I paid for.
LIZZIE O'LEARY: You did sign a
contract when
you took out that money.
DANIELLE LOPEZ: I did.
And I also thought if -- I feel
like it stopped
being about education and
started becoming
about consumerism.
I'm paying you for a service.
I paid you for an education.
I paid you to train me.
I paid you to give me this 90
percent job
placement rate that you boasted
about.
You told me you were going to
place me in
a job.
And, instead, I got a program
that was shutting
down.
LIZZIE O'LEARY: The Art
Institute's parent
company, Education Management
Corporation,
was the target of a federal
investigation.
Department of Justice officials
say the company
acted as a recruitment mill.
It reached a $95.5 million false
claims settlement.
But there was no determination
of liability.
LORETTA LYNCH, U.S. Attorney
General: This
kind of abuse hurts not only
taxpayers, but
also the students.
LIZZIE O'LEARY: The Art
Institute of New York's
Web site says it is no longer
accepting students.
And the campus has been put on
probation by
their accreditor.
In the last few years, the Obama
administration
put many new regulations in
place to address
aggressive marketing and job
placement claims
by several for-profit schools.
BARACK OBAMA, President of the
United States:
Too many of these for-profit
colleges -- some
do a fine job, but many of them
recruit kids
in.
The kids don't graduate, but
they're left
with the debt.
LIZZIE O'LEARY: Earlier this
month, the Department
of Education released a report
saying many
for-profit graduates aren't
earning enough
to reasonably repay their loans.
One out of four career training
programs are
at risk of losing their federal
funding.
The University of Phoenix has
215,000 students,
the largest for-profit college
in the country.
Stephen Trimble was 27 years old
when he decided
to take classes at the
University of Phoenix
outside Philadelphia.
STEPHEN TRIMBLE, Student Loan
Borrower: I
didn't have a degree.
And I thought that getting one
would allow
me to advance in my career
better, faster.
It would allow me to earn more
money.
LIZZIE O'LEARY: Trimble took out
a private
loan for $30,000 in 2008 to
study business
management, but dropped out
before finishing,
and then fell behind on his
payments.
He says that had a domino
effect.
STEPHEN TRIMBLE: It's decimated
my financial
life.
My credit score is probably 150
to 200 points
lower than it should be.
I couldn't get a mortgage if I
wanted one.
My house is in my wife's name.
LIZZIE O'LEARY: Trimble and
Adorno are part
of the group of Americans who
turned to for-profits
schools during the great
recession.
SANDY BAUM, Urban Institute:
There was very
rapid growth in the for-profit
sector, much
of it big companies.
The University of Phoenix is a
prime example.
They signed up all kinds of
people who had
no idea what they were getting
into.
So, that's a problem.
LIZZIE O'LEARY: Finishing school
is a challenge
for many students enrolled in
these kinds
of programs, according to Sandy
Baum, a senior
fellow at the Urban Institute.
SANDY BAUM: On average, people
who go to for-profit
institutions are much more
likely to borrow,
to borrow more, and not to be
able to repay
their loans.
It's pretty clear from the data
that the crisis
is centered around people who
start college
and don't finish.
LIZZIE O'LEARY: Trimble is not
alone.
The overall graduation rate for
private for-profits
is 27 percent, vs. 58 percent
for public and
65 percent for private nonprofit
schools.
The university touts success
stories like
Gail Marquis, former Olympic
athlete and Wall
Street banker, profiled here in
this advertisement.
GAIL MARQUIS, Wall Street
Banker: My schedule
is not a 9:00-to-5:00, but I was
able to balance
my life, my work, and the
schooling.
LIZZIE O'LEARY: Like many
for-profits, the
student population at the
University of Phoenix
is largely first-generation
college students,
minority, and female.
Phoenix declined "PBS
NewsHour"'s interview
request, but suggested we speak
with Steve
Delahunty (ph), one of their
satisfied alumni.
He graduated with a masters in
technology
management.
STEVE DELAHUNTY, University of
Phoenix Graduate:
When you speak about the
standards that the
for-profit universities are
looking at, they're
being held to some standards in
terms of return
on investment for the federal
dollars that
people are using to go to these
institutions
that a state school and a
private school are
not held to.
But the for-profit's being
judged by the people
and whether or not they're
getting good jobs
out of that, when, in fact, of
course, with
the tuition at like a private
college is way
more expensive than a for-profit
college.
LIZZIE O'LEARY: The University
of Phoenix
stands by their educational
model and told
"PBS NewsHour" in an e-mail --
quote -- "For
more than 40 years, University
of Phoenix
has provided high-quality,
career-relevant
higher education for working
adults, an underserved
segment of Americans."
Phoenix also points to
Department of Education
statistics showing the school's
average annual
cost is below the national
average for large
private institutions.
The school also says the
salaries of its alumni
who had federal financial aid 10
years after
graduation are -- quote --
"above the national
average."
For the full statement from the
University
of Phoenix, go to the "PBS
NewsHour" Web site,
PBS.org/NewsHour.
The recent closure of schools
like ITT and
Corinthian means many former
students have
been left with debt and few job
prospects.
The Obama administration
implemented a debt
forgiveness program for students
who believe
they were defrauded or that
their schools
violated state law.
So far, the Department of
Education has approved
loan discharges of at least
28,000 former
Corinthian students.
But there are many other former
for-profit
school students in limbo, like
Danielle Adorno.
She applied for loan forgiveness
multiple
times, with no resolution so
far.
We're going to have a new
president January
20.
Do you think about that at all?
DANIELLE LOPEZ: I don't
anticipate anything
beneficial coming out of it.
He ran a for-profit school
himself.
He got sued for his for-profit
school.
I don't think he has our best
interests at
heart.
LIZZIE O'LEARY: President-elect
Trump has
not yet made clear where he
stands on the
matter of for-profit schools or
whether he
would roll back the Obama
administration's
policies.
That leaves lots of questions
about what may
happen to Adorno and many
others.
For the "PBS NewsHour," this is
Lizzie O'Leary
in New York.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Finally tonight:
What we can
learn about life from those
facing death?
Chaplain Kerry Egan's new book
is called "On
Living" and is the latest
edition in our essay
series In My Humble Opinion.
KERRY EGAN, Author, "On Living":
When people
learn that I'm a hospice
chaplain, they usually
have one of two reactions.
They either say they could never
do that job
and change the subject
completely, or they
have questions, lots of
questions.
One of the questions I hear more
often than
I would have thought is about
people's last
words.
People are enormously curious
about what people
who are actively dying talk
about.
Have you ever heard anything
really amazing?
What's the craziest deathbed
confession you
have ever heard?
Should I plan out my last words?
That last question seemed really
odd to me
the first time someone asked,
but I have been
asked it at least a dozen times,
so it's obviously
on some people's minds.
The questions don't actually
match up with
what typically happens when
someone is dying.
Instead, I suspect they're
coming from a sort
of Hollywood movie or television
idea of what
dying should be like, clean,
calm, bizarrely
romantic, always with the good
sense to close
your eyes before taking a long
sigh and limply
tossing your head to the side,
and beautiful,
urgent, life-altering
utterances.
So, if this is what you think
happens in death,
I can see how you would feel a
lot of pressure
to get it right.
When someone asks me if they
should plan their
last words, the short answer is:
No.
People who are dying are often
unconscious
for days before they die.
Sometimes, they're in pain.
They're often highly medicated.
Honestly, most of the last words
I have heard
are so mundane, I can't even
give an example.
When you know you have a
terminal diagnosis,
death often takes a person by
surprise.
You might not even know that
your last words
are your last words.
But there's a longer, more
complex answer
too.
If you had something so
important to tell
your loved ones that you feel
the need to
plan out what to say, then why
would you wait
to say it?
If it's so important that you're
worried about
it now, then say it now.
Ask for forgiveness now.
Say you love someone now.
Share whatever wisdom you have
with the world
right now.
Here's the thing.
When people ask me about dying
words, what
they're really asking is, what
is so important
in this life that it should be
the very last
thing we talk about?
So, instead of asking, what do
other people
talk about, ask yourself, what
do I really
want to talk about now?
And that's a really good
question.
That's a really good thing to
ponder.
JUDY WOODRUFF: A lot to think
about there.
And you can watch more of our
series In My
Humble Opinion on our Web site.
Also on the "NewsHour" online
right now: Social
media site Instagram is trying
out a new tool
to help users at risk of
self-harm and eating
disorders.
Will it influence the future of
mental health
treatment?
All that and more is on our Web
site, PBS.org/NewsHour.
And that's the "NewsHour" for
tonight.
I'm Judy Woodruff.
Join us online and again here
tomorrow evening.
For all of us at the "PBS
NewsHour," thank
you, and good night.
For all of us at the "PBS
NewsHour," thank
you, and good night.